Richard Ludwick, new St. Thomas president, talks English and philosophy controversy, enrollment.  [...] I think change has to be driven by your core principles.  The new president mcomes to Houston after leading the Independent Colleges of Indiana, a group of that state's 31 private, nonprofit colleges and universities.  Alumni and faculty questioned if administrators were emphasizing science, technology, engineering and math over the university’s liberal arts core as former president Robert Ivany withheld contracts from tenured English and philosophy faculty.  Faculty later received contracts after protest from graduates, students and professors.  Ludwick spoke to the Houston Chronicle about that controversy, bolstering enrollment, financial aid and the role of a Catholic university in Houston on Thursday in the historic Link Lee building.  Excerpts of his interview with Chronicle higher education reporter Lindsay Ellis follow:  When you look at our institution, as a Catholic institution, the word Catholic means universal.  Do American universities still have the luxury of helping students find themselves?  If you look at the outcomes of our students in terms of the rates of going to medical school, to law school, and the success that they have, it’s clear that they are prepared for the next destination well.  [...] the really good part about that is the affordability piece that we know is so critical really works out well for students who make a choice for a private nonprofit college.  Is it sustainable to subsidize tuition across the student body?  What is sustainable is finding the future business model for this institution.  [...] the work that the board and the prior administration has done in terms of fiscal question really puts on a footing that lays out a plan so that we’re going to be stronger in the future.  [...] when you do that in the context of a 2000-year intellectual tradition in the Catholic church… that is a richness that permeates this institution and makes it distinct among institutions of higher learning.  I think the intensity of that conversation here is a strength of the institution because it shows that there is that passion.  [...] it shows that there is an opportunity for people to express their opinions.  [...] I think change has to be driven by your core principles.  Faculty had been wondering whether the Center for Thomistic Studies -- the only U.S. graduate philosophy program focused on St. Thomas Aquinas' thought -- would continue within the philosophy department.