[Whenever I talk about feminism, my brother says I blame all men and it offends him. I don’t mean to. How should I respond?]

 First, dear questioner, this is a super common issue.

 Second, it kind of boils down to picking your battle. Because you can only really fight one at a time.

 Let me explain.

 Educating people about feminism (or any other issue one cares to name) is important. Duh.

 On the other hand, so is retaining one’s sanity and not wasting one’s time.

 Hence the importance of the phrase ‘I don’t have time to educate you’/’Educate yourself’. It’s not very nice, but that’s not really the point. It’s about maintaining personal boundaries and subverting the narrative that the onus is on the minority to educate the privileged person. 

 Especially when you’re being sea-lioned on Twitter. Because there is not a great deal of point in engaging with people refusing to argue in good faith.

 That being said, if you want to educate people about feminism (etc), that is a wonderful and valuable thing.

 But sometimes it will feel like banging your head against a wall.

 It is important to educate people about feminism. It’s important to talk about it, put forward your views, generally act like it’s a normal, everyday thing. All this is pretty obvious.

 What’s also obvious is how easily people can become touchy, defensive and closed if they feel like they’re being personally attacked.

 Now, learning NOT to take everything so sodding personally when generalities/structural inequalities are being discussed is a very important life skill, but that doesn’t help in a particular situation like talking to your brother. 

 Here’s the thing.

 One might think that the MESSAGE is the most important thing and that everything else is irrelevant. (e.g. “feminism is about equality! [example] is male privilege and male privilege is bad!”)

 But truthfully, the MEDIUM is just as important, if not more so. And that medium, my friend, is you. And your word choice. And your tone. And when you choose to have these discussions.

 This is not a thing which is fair. But, you may have noticed, the world is not a particularly fair place.

 When you talk to your brother about feminism, he feels attacked. That may or may not be fair or reasonable. It may be totally irrational. 

 But you can work on that, or you can work on the issue at hand. And you have to pick your battle, because you can’t do both at the same time.

 Assuming that what you want to do is explain, say, male privilege, rather than discuss how not to take things personally, then it will mean altering your approach a little.

 Sometimes people have this idea that when others have the TRUTH™ explained to them, the other person will instantly grasp it and everything will be daisies and rainbows and unicorns.

 But that’s not so. The medium is as important as the message, because rejecting the medium means the message never even gets a hearing.

 Would it be nice to be able to explain problems in whatever tone you wished? Yeah, that’d be great. But seeing as we live in the real world, with people who have feelings and all, it’s probably going to benefit you more in the long run to suck it up and be…at the very least, non-accusatory sounding. 

 When explaining an issue (let’s take male privilege again because it’s an easy example), it’s OK to assure people that it’s not something you BLAME them for, it’s not something they can HELP, but it is something they have, and something they should be aware of. 

 It’s OK to be sensitive to other people’s delicate fee-fees. Truly and sincerely. Because everyone, no matter how much male privilege or white privilege or class privilege they have, still has feelings. 

 And realise that it’ll probably be a slow, drip-feeding process. As his sister, you are a terrific person to teach your brother about feminism: you’re (probably) close in age, you were (likely) brought up together, you know each other well…

 But that ALSO means that he is going to take everything you say even more personally than something a stranger says to him, because you are related. 

 So be as kind and neutral and non-judgemental as you can manage.

 And don’t feel like you have to do it all at once. You have your whole lives to become better people. So it’s totally OK to start with ‘I think that men and women should be equal’, work (gently) to get agreement on that, and then let it rest a bit. 

 It’s OK if your brother doesn’t immediately agree with you on everything. It’s all right to let the argument go, even if he still disagrees, and come back to it some other time.

 It’s OK for a feminist awakening to be a process. Maintaining the relationship you have with him is more important than agreeing on everything. Not least because if you have a good relationship, he’s more likely to come around to your way of thinking.

 Calling people out for rejecting tenets of feminism (for whatever reason) is more likely to make them into enemies than allies.

 And an ally is what you want, right?