In the early days of December 1805, a handful of prominent politicians received formal invitations to join President Thomas Jefferson for a White House dinner.  Historians have cited the meal as the first time an iftar took place in the White House - and it has been referenced in recent White House celebrations of Ramadan as an embodiment of the Founding Father's respect for religious freedom.  Whatever Jefferson could have foreseen for the young country's future, it appears the modern-day White House tradition of marking Ramadan with an iftar dinner or Eid celebration has come to an end.  In his diary, the future president described Mellimelli with an air of fascination, noting everything from how the envoy smelled (of rose-scented snuff) to how his appearance differed from that of the other "Turks" (Mellimelli wore his beard long, while the two secretaries who had accompanied him only had whiskers).  Adams, the son of President John Adams, captured few details about what was served for dinner itself, only that Mellimelli "freely partook of the dishes on the table without inquiring into the cookery" and that, soon after eating, he left for the drawing room to smoke his pipe again.  Teenage daughter Chelsea, who had the year before studied Islamic history in school, according to reports that year cited by Muslim Voices.  Clinton described the reception as a "historic and overdue occasion," a precedent for Muslim religious celebrations at the White House, the Associated Press reported then.  The tradition continued under President George W. Bush, who hosted an iftar dinner every year of his two terms in office - including shortly after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, when anger toward Muslim Americans was spiking.  More than 15 years later, Charlotte Beers, who served as undersecretary of state for public diplomacy under Bush, can still remember how effective the iftar had been diplomatically, in being able to show that the United States respected all religions.  The first Muslim ambassador to the United States, from Tunisia, was hosted by President Jefferson, who arranged a sunset dinner for his guest because it was Ramadan - making it the first known iftar at the White House, more than 200 years ago.  Obama mentioned this historical dinner again in his 2012 White House iftar remarks; that year, organizers also had set up a special display of Jefferson's copy of the Koran, on loan from the Library of Congress.  The bill for establishing religious freedom, the principles of which had, to a certain degree, been enacted before, I had drawn in all the latitude of reason & right.  Where the preamble declares that coercion is a departure from the plan of the holy author of our religion, an amendment was proposed, by inserting the word "Jesus Christ," so that it should read "departure from the plan of Jesus Christ, the holy author of our religion" the insertion was rejected by a great majority, in proof that they meant to comprehend, within the mantle of it's protection, the Jew and the Gentile, the Christian and Mahometan, the Hindoo, and infidel of every denomination.  If they broke their fast in the White House, then that was iftar, said Zaki Barzinji, a former senior associate director at the Obama White House who helped plan the administration's last Ramadan celebration.  Rumana Ahmed, who helped plan several White House iftar dinners and one Eid celebration during the Obama administration, said it was unfortunate the tradition could end with Trump.